---
$title: Clearstream
$order: 1
---

Mike King - Case Study: Clearstream

URL:
[clearstream](https://www.clearstream.tv/)[.tv](https://www.clearstream.tv/)

Role: User Experience Design Lead; Data / Information Designer; Frontend
Engineer

# Overview

If you’ve ever browsed on a website for some kind of product or service, and
then switched to a different site, only to see a video advertisement playing
in the sidebar for that same product, then you’re familiar with the concept of
‘retargeting’. In the summer of 2014, I had the opportunity to redesign one of
the largest video advertising campaign management platforms in the industry,
which provides this same retargeting service for hundreds of international
brands.

# The Project

Clearstream is an advertising technology company whose primary service is
video campaign management, built on top of an advertising exchange to provide
real-time bidding and serving of ad impressions based on a website visitor’s
location, technology and device. In essence, the service Clearstream provides
allows brands &amp; marketers to place targeted video ads based on a user’s
browsing behavior all in real-time, and receive real-time analytics on the
ad’s performance.

# The Problem

At the time, the primary service that Clearstream provided for their clients
was at the cutting edge of advertising technology. To give their clients an
edge, Clearstream’s consultants used two (2) different, yet similar, demand-
side advertising platforms for managing bids for video ads and deploying the
creative to campaigns. The reason for using two different platforms was that
each had its specialty and provided optimized workflows for certain tasks like
the creation of vast-tags (tracking pixels) or configuring campaign placement
metrics. Clearstream had reached a point in their business where switching
back and forth between the tools was costing them thousands of dollars a day.

# The Objectives

The primary objective of the Clearstream project was to provide their clients
with a premium, streamlined experience for executing targeted, real-time video
advertising. Additionally, the client also wanted to focus on creating a clean
and modern user interface that simplified their existing processes and unified
data for reporting and visualization.

# The Process

Discovery

For the initial Discovery process, I had the opportunity of flying to Chicago,
along with an engineering consultant, to lead a 1-week UX intensive research
session with the client and their staff to kick the project off. We organized
each day into working sessions to cover several distinct areas of user and
technical research including stakeholder interviews, goal definitions,
experience audits, user profile definitions, competitor analyses, branding
workshops, and system architecture.

Information Architecture

With a project of this nature and domain complexity, the initial step in
defining the IA was to establish a common vocabulary to represent objects and
entities within our system, ie. advertisers vs agencies vs brands, campaigns
vs placements vs flights, etc. Once we had a consensus on terminology, we were
able to start laying out the different components that communicate with each
other and make up the system through user flows and wireframes.

UI Development

Once the visual design had been approved, my focus turned to reporting, where
I developed interactive data-visualizations in the form of customized charts
&amp; graphs. The application interface was developed using AngularJS +
Foundation Framework, while the charting component was built on top of Kendo
UI’s charting components. Kendo UI provides Angular UI components with built-
in data-binding, so all of the pieces worked nicely together, and I could
focus on customizing the experience of the charts rather than just getting
them to work.

# The Insights

Unlike most typical client projects, the Clearstream project was purely an
internal tool used by their consultants to assist their clients with video
campaign management. As such, the Discovery process yielded some interesting
information about the goals and motivations of the people using the product:

  * The current platform(s) provides the business with the most capabilities/flexibility available in video advertising demand side platforms. This in turn allows the company to stay ahead of the curve and provide tailored (“non-cookie-cutter”) solutions for their clients.
  * The head of operations relied on accurate and relevant data from the bid management platforms to determine how best to optimize yields and increase margins for the company as a whole.
  * At the time, they did not have any accountability within their platforms, i.e. if two people were working on the same campaign, they had no way of tracking who made the changes and when.

# The Solution

Our final solution was an all-inclusive dashboard for managing bids, campaigns
&amp; customers (CRM), as well as provided custom, real-time reports and
charting using HTML5 technologies and served from the cloud.

# The Results

The final results after launching the initial phase of Clearstream’s project
was a platform capable of processing more than 60 million rows of data based
on user behavior per day and serving video advertisements in milliseconds for
multinational brands like McDonald’s, MGM and British Petroleum.
