---
$title: MobiPCS
$order: 3
---

Mike King - Case Study: MobiPCS

URL: [mobipcs.com](http://mobipcs.com)

Role: User Experience Design Lead; Frontend Engineer

Blog Post: [Data, Demographics, and User Personas](https://medium.com/console-
log-yo/data-demographics-and-user-personas-ed560a5ac9e8)

# Overview

In the spring of 2013, I had the opportunity to lead the redesign of MobiPCS,
a regional wireless service provider in Hawaii. The project involved in-depth
stakeholder &amp; customer research which lead to a mobile-first strategy,
user experience design exercises to flesh out the task flows through the site,
and front-end development to create complex UI interactions for creation and
purchase of family phone plans online. The end result was a highly performant,
mobile first web application with increased YOY mobile traffic of ~300% and a
significant decrease in calls to customer support.

# The Project

MobiPCS is a Hawaii-based regional wireless service provider, known as a
simple, hassle-free, and cost-efficient wireless carrier with great customer
service; all phones come with unlimited talk &amp; text and you only pay extra
for data, with complete plans ranging from $35–70/mo. (If you’re wondering how
they can offer such a great deal, they mostly carry older phone models, and
strictly Androids.)

# The Problem

Due to their lower than normal pricing, the brand was also actively fighting
the stigma of being the “cheap phone guys” and only servicing low income
customers. The previous website featured a legacy, fixed-width design (ie. no
mobile support) and included multiple pain points in their product purchase
and bill-payment user flows.

Additionally, the client was also interested in expanding the “self-care”
portion of the site, allowing users to perform common account-level tasks
online (ie. bill payment, upgrade their phone, add a new line/phone number,
etc.).

# The Objectives

From a business perspective, the primary goals of the redesign were to bring
the site up to date with a [responsive web
design](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Responsive_web_design) approach, improve
the overall usability &amp; navigation, and provide efficient and adequate
tools to aid existing &amp; potential customers. Increasing online sales
wasn’t a major concern because they were well known for their in-store
customer service and wanted to maintain that human touch in the sales process.

# The Process

Discovery

During the discovery process, I lead several rounds of interviews, including
stakeholder interviews with executive management, regional managers, store
managers, customer care representatives, and store associates, as well as
interviews with customers on-location (i.e., in-context). I also completed two
rounds of user surveys, sent via text message to ~5000 customers to gather
quantitative data, with ~1000 responses. We then developed user personas based
on the quality &amp; quantitative information we received directly and
indirectly during the interview process.

Information Architecture

Once we had consensus from the stakeholders on the business problems we were
solving, as well as the motivations of their customers, I proceeded to create
user flows, mapping out the current navigational paths across the site and
highlighted many pain points along the way. After proposing improved user-
flows, I then moved into creating mobile-first wireframes based on our
insights from Discovery, where we learned their target audiences primary
devices for accessing the internet is their mobile phones.

UI Development

After approval of the site architecture and wireframes, I then began rapidly
prototyping the more complex parts of the UI design in HTML/CSS/JS. Using
AngularJS + Foundation Framework, I was able to quickly put together a
testable, interactive prototype allowing test users to create Ohana (family)
plans with multiple phone lines, plan options and add-ons, and devices, from
browse to checkout.

# The Insights

As previously noted, the Discovery process uncovered a lot of very valuable
information about the MobiPCS customer; below are a few of the insights we
were able to pull together:

  * 60% of their target audience made above the median-household income for the state of Hawaii, directly contradicting the stigma placed on them for being a cheap carrier for low-income individuals
  * Over 70% of current customers at the time used their smartphone as their primary device for accessing the internet.
  * A significant portion of the customer base (up to 30% at some locations) were non-native english speakers

# The Solution

Based on what we uncovered during the Discovery phase, our solution was based
on a mobile first design strategy, with a user experienced focused largely
around mobile behavior. Additionally, to accommodate the large percentage of
non-native english speaking customer base, our content strategy focused on
simplification as well as using iconography and other universal symbology to
help direct users without a lot of text.

# The Results

In the end, user personas, founded on qualitative research and observation of
real people, provided a common design language that lead to a successful
redesign and development of the site. Customers enjoyed an enhanced and
intuitive mobile experience that was simplified and easy to navigate. The
client enjoyed a month-over-month increase in mobile traffic visits of +160%
and year-over-year increase of +290%.
