---
$title: Teacup Analytics
$order: 4
---

Mike King - Case Study: Teacup Analytics

URL: [teacupanalytics.com](https://www.teacupanalytics.com/)

Role: User Experience Design Lead; Data / Information Designer

# Overview

Teacup Analytics goes beyond simple metrics on website user behavior. Using
Google Analytics powerful dataset, Teacup Analytics provides website owners
with insight into the behavior behind the numbers. Teacup’s tools automate
reporting, collate data, and reduce your reporting workload so you can get
back to work.

# The Project

Dean Levitt, Founder of Teacup Analytics, realized he had a passion for web
analytics while growing his previous company, Mad Mimi an email marketing
platform that was acquired by GoDaddy in 2014.

# The Problem

Google Analytics is a very powerful tool for understanding your website’s user
behavior. However, because of the richness and complexity of the data, just
understanding the information can be a challenge, let alone finding
opportunities and direction for improvement. Dean realized this fact while
growing Mad Mimi, and saw an opportunity to provide the same rich and powerful
information, but in a simpler, actionable format that non-technical owners of
websites could understand and utilize.

# The Objectives

The primary objective of the Teacup Analytics project was to develop a
platform based on Google Analytics, that allows website owners to understand
and take action with their website’s user data more easily. Teacup Analytics
aims to make digital business intelligence accessible to small-to-medium sized
businesses with focused, beautifully presented reports, predictive analytics
and decision making aids.

# The Process

Discovery

For the initial Discovery process, I had several one-on-one meetings with the
founder to define his goals and scope of the project. Given this was a new
startup, we needed to breakdown the scope into multiple phases to make the
project more manageable. Once we had a clear understanding of the scope, we
began diving into the user research the founder had collected over time. We
defined user profiles around their technical web skill level, motivations
&amp; goals, and business types, which we later used as guidelines for the
types of packaged reports available within the web application.

Once we had a clear understanding of the user types, we moved on to developing
the user scenarios that would define the application functionality, within
scope. We defined system characters (ie. “Account Management System”,
“Notification System”) the user would interact with, as well as defined the
primary scenarios in each use case.

Information Architecture

With the use-cases defined, I then created visual schematics for the primary
task-flows in the application, ie. creating a new account, purchasing a
report, creating a goal, etc.

Once we had consensus on the application flows, I moved on to creating
wireframe schematics of the web application. For an application of this
complexity, I followed an object-oriented design pattern and designed
components that would build up the user interface in layers. This allowed for
UI components to be reused across the different areas of the application and
established a common language for the interface.

Given the application’s user interface primary function was to visualize data,
we also spent a considerable amount of focus on defining how to visualize that
data. We worked with a data scientist to help analyze sample data sets from
website analytics and based on our defined reports, determine the appropriate
visualizations that would present the data correctly and allow for deeper
exploration.

# The Insights

Based on the diversity of users that utilize services like Google Analytics,
we learned through the Discovery process the types of questions and how data
should answer those questions varied greatly. To create an application that
was manageable and simplified the interface and experience of Google
Analytics, we had to make some generalizations about the common types of
questions website owners have and defined pre-packaged reports around them.
For example, some of the questions we had were:

  * Simple: Am I getting traffic?
  * Medium: Is my traffic increasing/decreasing?
  * Advanced: How can I control bounce-rate (stop-loss)?

# The Solution

The final solution was a simple analytics tool that allows website owners to
choose a type of report they want to view, create a goal, define actions to
accomplish their goal, and track their performance. While not directly
involved in the implementation for this project, the technology stack utilized
HTML5 technologies and a decoupled architecture with Ruby on Rails in the
backend.

# The Results

Since launch, Teacup Analytics has become an official technology partner of
Google Analytics and has received amazing reviews from customers from varying
backgrounds, from small businesses to web developers utilizing the platform
for their clients.

<https://www.teacupanalytics.com/testimonials>
