---
$title: Tour Aloha
$order: 5
---

Mike King - Case Study: Tour Aloha

URL:

  * iTunes App Store:   
<https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/tour-aloha/id1032587135?mt=8>

  * Google Play Store: <https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.robertshawaii.digitaltours>

Role: User Experience Design Lead

# Overview

Launched in September of 2015, Tour Aloha is a travel companion mobile app for
visitors to the islands created in partnership with Roberts Hawaii. The app
provides a unique and interactive deep knowledge travel guide for Hawaii. As
you tour scenic destinations, Tour Aloha shares exclusive images and stories
from a time past but not forgotten.

# The Project

Roberts Hawaii is a full-service tour operator in the state of Hawaii, known
for providing personalized sightseeing tours and activities across the islands
of Kaua‘i, O‘ahu, Maui and Hawaii Island. Roberts Hawaii was interested in
developing a mobile application as a companion guide to its popular tours and
provide island visitors with a Roberts well known hospitality experience even
when outside of their tour bus.

# The Problem

While Roberts Hawaii is still well-known for its island sightseeing tours, the
current generation of travelers to the islands weren’t as keen on renting bus
tours as past generations. Today, many people, specifically in the younger
demographic, rent cars or do private tours to have a more personal experience
while on vacation. Roberts Hawaii felt they had something compelling to offer
these visitors, even if they didn’t book a bus tour: the stories of the
islands.

# The Objectives

The primary objective of the Roberts Hawaii project was to expand the target
market and enhance their current tour experience by providing exclusive
content visitors couldn’t get anywhere else. The strategy was to provide a
mobile app that simulated the tour experience by providing GPS navigation of
tour routes with overlayed text, audio, photography, and video to provide
users with unique stories about historical destinations across the islands,
told from people who experienced them first hand.

# The Process

Discovery

During the Discovery process, we performed stakeholder interviews with the
marketing department and executive management to define the objectives, goals,
and metrics for the project, as well as defined the scope of the user
experience through the creation of use-case scenarios which outlined the
primary tasks within the mobile application from a business perspective. We
performed a competitor analysis across 7 different comparable applications to
help surface opportunities to differentiate the app. We also created user
profiles to assist in understanding the motivations for using the app and the
features that would be most helpful for each audience type.

Information Architecture

We created key task flow diagrams to help outline the general experience for
users navigating through the app to discover and experience a virtual tour,
from downloading an individual tour (available as in-app purchases) to viewing
images and listening to audio at an individual tour stop. Once we established
consensus with the user flow, we developed wireframes for the screens
representing each step in the flow and providing additional context for
interactive behavior (swiping, tapping, etc.)

Project Management

As project lead, I managed all phases of the engagement, from the initial
consultation and estimates, through the discovery and design strategy phases,
and finally through development, QA testing and launch. The client had a tight
marketing deadline, so we were able to split the project into multiple phases
that allowed for an earlier launch with minimal capability, with updates
following shortly after launch to help improve the user experience.

# The Insights

We learned through Discovery process that a large portion of their current
user base was Android, however their target audience being a different market,
they wanted to target both iOS and Android devices. Additionally, we learned
the client had direct access to raw audio recordings of Pearl Harbor survivors
which they eventually obtained the rights to use as part of one of their tour
experiences.

# The Solution

Due to the requirements for the project, we recommended a “hybrid” mobile
application solution for mobile development, and settled on Ionic Framework
(AngularJS + Cordova) due to the transfer of knowledge we already had with
frontend JS technologies and the ability to write in one codebase and deploy
to multiple platforms (iOS and Android). We also developed a custom backend
administrative dashboard to allow for managing the content and data for tours,
along with GPS coordinates, as well as development of a tour packaging system
to allow for creation of new tours on the fly and downloading tours as in-app
purchases.

# The Results

The final result was a unique and interactive way for visitors to explore the
Hawaiian islands, providing exclusive images and stories from a time past but
not forgotten. The mobile application design won a 2016 Pele Gold award for
best mobile app.
