---
$hidden: true
---
Mike King - Case Study: GoHawaii

URL:

  * iTunes App Store:   
<https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/gohawaii/id1100071565?mt=8>

  * Google Play Store: <https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.gohawaii.htamobile>

Role: User Experience Design Lead; Creative Director; Systems Architect; API
Developer

# Overview

Launched in June of 2016,  GoHawaiʻi is the state of Hawaii’s official mobile
app for travel tips and safety information for visitors from the mainland,
China, Japan, Korea and Germany developed in partnership with Hawaiʻi Tourism
Authority. We implemented a multilingual mobile content management system that
delivers fresh tips to Android and iOS users dynamically and information is
presented via an interactive, illustrated storytelling experience using
characters and scenes created just for GoHawaiʻi.

# The Project

As Hawaii's state tourism agency, the Hawaii Tourism Authority (HTA) uses its
research, industry and marketing expertise to develop and implement the
state's strategic tourism marketing plan. Equally important, the HTA is
responsible for supporting programs that enhance and showcase Hawaii's people,
place and culture in order to deliver an incomparable visitor experience.

# The Problem

While Hawaii continues to serve as one of the world’s most popular tourist
destinations, it is also unfortunately home to one of the highest rates of
visitor drownings in the country. As the state’s official tourism agency, HTA
is responsible for administering and promoting the state’s visitor safety
guidelines. These guidelines are typically available to visitors upon arrival
at Honolulu International Airport and at prominent hotels throughout the
islands, however HTA wanted to take advantage of mobile technology to provide
access directly to users from their smartphones.

# The Objectives

Hawaii Tourism Authority’s primary objective was to increase awareness and
accessibility of publicly available safety and travel information, while also
provide a single resource for travel destination information across the major
Hawaiian Islands. HTA wanted to provide “all-access” safety and travel
destination information to users in the most convenient means as possible,
using the latest forms of mobile technology.

# The Process

Discovery

During the Discovery process, I lead multiple rounds of stakeholder interviews
with the international marketing teams for HTA, including their Japanese,
Korean, Chinese &amp; Taiwanese teams,  to identify overarching concerns in
regards to end customers motivations and technology habits. We performed a
competitor analysis across 9 different local and national competitors in the
travel and tourism space. Additionally, we created user profiles to define the
audience of the application, extrapolated from market research performed by
the client.

Information Architecture

Once we had a clear understanding of the requirements, business goals, and
user motivations, we began designing user task-flow diagrams to outline the
experience for users navigating through the app to discovery safety
information and recommended attractions, events, and island tips. Once the
user-flows had been defined and agreed upon, we created wireframe schematics
to outline the introductory flow, safety “travel smart” experience,
destination experience, and menu interactions.

Creative Direction

One of the primary challenges for the project was defining a creative strategy
that could make safety information exciting and interesting for visitors to
the islands. Based on the business requirements and potential motivations of
the target audience, I presented two creative design strategies for the mobile
experience: a conservative, content-centric brochure experience that used
animations and transitions as supporting elements of the design, and an
interactive narrative experience that uses storytelling and illustrations to
escort users through the content, using animated characters as friendly
guides. As the client’s concern was making the safety content more accessible
and digestible, they chose to pursue the interactive storytelling direction.
From here, I collaborated with an art director and visual designer to ensure
the brand and user interface designs created the right narrative experience
for first time visitors to the islands.

System Architecture  / API Development

Once the information architecture had been agreed upon, I shifted my focus to
the technical architecture of the system. Based on the requirements of the
project, we needed to develop a system that would allow for managing and
serving content from 6 different locales while allowing the user to
dynamically switch languages within the mobile app and the client to update
the content in any language on the fly. We decided to use a headless WordPress
CMS as the backend, and through a combined usage of localization plugins,
custom fields / custom post type development, and WordPress’ new built-in REST
API, we were able to develop a seamless editorial workflow that allowed HTA’s
local and international marketing teams to add and update content within the
mobile app without pushing new versions to the app store.

# The Insights

Through the Discovery process, we learned the majority of visitors to the
Hawaiian Islands today come from Asian countries, ie. China, Japan, and Korea.
This finding influenced our creative strategy and subsequently, the branding
and visual design for the application. In Japanese culture, the concept of
“cute” or “cuteness” permeates many products, and is used as design strategy
to create an emotional impact with customers. Leaning on this discovery, we
created a set of “cute” character guides for the mobile application to help
guide users on their journey through the islands.

# The Solution

Given the broad demographics of the target user base, we recommended a
“hybrid” mobile application solution for mobile development, allowing us to
write in one codebase and deploy to multiple platforms (iOS and Android). As
previously mentioned, we developed a custom backend and API server using a
headless WordPress solution, allowing the client to manage safety and travel
destination content across 6 different locales and perform content updates in
the app without the need to deploy new versions to the native app stores.

# The Results

In the end, we successfully created the state of Hawaii’s first official
travel and tourism app; a fun and interactive way to learn both safety and
historical information about the Hawaiian Islands. The client had a goal of
achieving 10,000 downloads by the annual Hawaii Tourism Conference, 3 months
after launch. We were happily surprised when we had reached more than 15,000
downloads several weeks ahead of the conference. Additionally, the mobile
application design won a 2017 Pele Gold award for best mobile app. The annual
competition, formerly known as the ADDYs, recognizes the best advertising and
design work in Hawaii.